---
layout: post
title: "Version 0.6.0 Released"
date: 2017-05-01 20:00
tags: [CFD, Aither, C++, couette, periodic, isothermal, wall law, wall function]
comments: true
---
## Release Notes
The 0.6.0 release of Aither is available on 
[Github](https://github.com/mnucci32/aither/releases). This release adds 
periodic boundary conditions and wall functions for turbulent flow. Wall 
variables can now be output to Plot3D meta files as well. Additional test cases
have been added for Couette flow and wall functions. The wall functions are 
available for the k-$$\omega$$ Wilcox, SST, SST-DES, and WALE turbulence models.
The wall functions are implemented in the way described by Nichols & Nelson [1].
If the first cell off the wall is in the log layer, the wall shear stress is 
prescribed by the wall of the law.

$$ u^+ = \frac{1}{\kappa} ln \left( y^+ \right) + B $$

If the first cell off the wall results in a $$y^+$$ less than 10, the 
boundary condition automatically switches back to the low Reynolds number
formulation. 

Wall variable output can be requested by assigning a list of variables to the
**wallOutputVariables** input. Wall functions can be turned on by setting the
**wallTreatment** option for a **viscousWall** to **wallLaw** as shown below.

```
wallOutputVariables: <yplus, heatFlux, shearStress, frictionVelocity>
boundaryStates: <viscousWall(tag=1; wallTreatment=wallLaw)>
```

## Features Added
* Periodic boundary conditions
* Wall functions for turbulent flow
* Wall variables output
* Test cases
  * Couette flow
  * Flat plate wall functions


## References
[1] Nichols, R. H. & Nelson, C. C. 
"Wall Function Boundary Conditions Including Heat Transfer and Compressibility".
AIAA Journal, Vol 42, No 6, June 2004.

